VERY IMPORTANT: COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION!
=============================================================

Working as developer in real-world is not so much about your technical skills as it is about your **communication skills**. You need to *INTERACT* with your assigned developer and/or other team members and co-workers.

You did not really understand the task description? Something is vague? Confused about something? *COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION!* Ask your assigned developer. DO NOT GUESS!

You see something is not right in the task description? A missing parameter? Or you feel that the proposed code or boilerplate can be improved? You see some potential bug/inconsistency in the approach? *COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION!* Share your thoughts with your assigned developer. Do not force yourself to do something that you know is faulty. The developer who wrote the task could make mistake, everybody does!

You are busy for few days because of school projects and cannot start your assigned task before early next week? *COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION!* Confirm to your assigned developer that you saw the task and you will get started on that four days later becuase right now you have a school project. We might be confused to see you dissapear silently for few days, and we may assume you are gone! Communicate what your situation is, and we do our best to help.

You don't like the tasks you are being given? Too difficult? Too easy? Not the area you are interested in? *COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION!* Talk with your assigned developer. Tell him or her that these tasks are very hard, or you are more inetersted in this type of task or that type of task, or any other concern you might have.

You see some error or typo in this document? ...

*COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION!* DO NOT guess, DO NOT disappear silently, DO NOT beat the bullet - but COMMUNICATE! Ask questions, express concerns, and suggest improvements. This is the most important thing for any company, that their members become part of its active life.

Companies don't really care if your code has a bug or is not optimal (for everyone's code has bugs and problems anyway!), but if you misunderstand your taks and do something different from what was asked for, it is a *HUGE TURNOFF*. For it shows that you ARE NOT a TEAM-PLAYER! You could have asked your supervisor or someone else for more explanation, but instead you took an individual path trying to guess what you are supposed to do. DO NOT GUESS! *COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION!* just ask, discuss and confirm.

Some people think that asking questions and clearifications is counted as a negative sign for their *lack of undestanding and incompetency*. But in fact it is quite reverse: asking is a sign that you are a *detail-oriented* person who wants to make sure what he or she does is in the right direction. Companies don't really like *silent* and *un-communicabale* people who take on a task, disapear for few days, and then reappear with a solution ... Companies want INTERACTION, not lone-wolves ninja coders. In fact, through *interaction* sometimes better solutions could be found ...

The task is not a dogma to follow. Try to argue and change the task to a better and more doable task. The developer who wrote the task may not have time to go deep into the task and figure out all its aspects. In fact, if he or she wants to go deep into the task and write all the details down in the task description then it could be that the amount of time and energy needed to write a task description become more than the amount of time and energy needed by the developer to actually do the task by himself or herself! So, the task description *MAY* contain some deficiencies or even errors. It is actually YOUR job to do deep into the task, and in doing so you may find some problems or improvements with the original task description, and then *COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION!* share your thought with your assigned developer. Bear in mind that the tasks are meant to be *open-ended problems* to be solved by you, and not a *TODO list* to follow (blindly!)

We often see this pattern among many newcomers that they hardly interact: they get a task and then disappear, after a few days (or even a week) and turn up with a solution which shows their misundersting of many aspects of the task. But even if you do the tasks perfectly wihout any problem each time, still you need to interact in the company setting. This is because companies are no longer looking for *Einstein programmers*, but for *team-player programmers*. 20 years ago, when software industry was much much simpler than today, a single programmer could pretty much write the whole project. So, in those days, an Einstein-programmer was valuable. Now things have changed. Software has become much much more complicated and standards have been raised. Now days, no matter how Einstein you are, you cannot write any project by yourself. You need people, you need team. And in a team, you need *team-players*. Team player means a person who can interact with others and build with others. When you disappear for four days without any communication and then suddenly turn up a magic code from nowhere, you are no exhibiting a team-player sympton.

The whole point of this writing is to make it clear to you that it is very important for any company that the members *interact*. Ask questions, suggest improvements, express how you feel. We would never know what you want unless you yourself tell us! Most of the problems you might have in this company (and any other company) can be solved by a "simple conversation"! And by solving those problems you also help other members, for they may also face the same problems. This way, you contribute to the overall improvement of the system. It is not just about "your problem" but "everyone's problem".

Some members, when facing a problem, immediately conclude that "this company is not for me!" They assume that there is no solution, *that's the way it is*, and they have to get along with that problem no matter what, No! You can change it, oftentime by a simple talk! As some of the interns are doing volunteering, it is easy for them to just drop out. That is Ok. But even if you want to drop out *COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION!!* You can give us feedback why you left and help us make the program better for others. Two years down the road you'll be working in a paid position somewhere, and at the time just "dropping out" might not be an option. So you need to learn this art of communication, either now or later, but you need to learn one day.      


 